## Code Review Strategy

Before diving into the code analysis, we started with reviewing our assurance cases, misuse cases, and threat model report. From the review, we observed the most critical weakness areas in the software and decided to approach the checklist review strategy which is would most appropriate method for analyzing the code of large-scale projects like Elasticsearch. To reduce the effort of going through all the code for each line we decided on adopting to review all items from our checklist.

We analyzed our code in both automated and manual review process. The automated code review is performed using open source static code analysis tool called **PWD and Findbugs**. The list of resultant vulnerabilities from the automated tool scan was narrowed  down to analyze  **CWE(Common Weakness Enumeration)** that are related to our misuse case, assurance cases, and threat model and examined manually. 

## Manual Code Review

From our misuse case [User updates data](https://github.com/swrp/CYBR8420-SemesterProject/blob/master/submissions/SoftwareSecurityRequirements.md#User-updates-data) and threat report, we identified vulnerability related to [CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/798.html). There are maximum chances of attacker finding a loop hole from this vulnerability that can lead to the disclosure of sensitive information and gaining unauthorized access to sensitive files. The code issue is located in the file [KeyStoreWrapper at line 40]( https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/master/x-pack/plugin/core/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/license/CryptUtils.java). 
At the line 40 default pass phrase key value is **hard coded** which is used to decrypt the private key file. Knowing the public key, private key and algorithm methods attacker can able to find the back door to break the algorithm patterns used.

Using our misuse case [User updates data](https://github.com/swrp/CYBR8420-SemesterProject/blob/master/submissions/SoftwareSecurityRequirements.md#User-updates-data) and threat report, we performed manual code review to verify the [CWE-284: Improper Access Control]( https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/284.html). We have observed that all security implementations were accomplished very carefully by managing the settings for **Access Control based on user role** and handling document-level privileges. There is medium severity issue related to the **Trusting all the incoming SSL certificates** from the server. This is most relatable to [CWE-300: Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/300.html) which could potentially maximize the chances of affecting the integrity and confidentiality of the data. Attacker can read or modify the communication taking advantage of this weakness. The issue is found in the file [TrustAllConfig at line 46]( https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/master/x-pack/plugin/core/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/core/ssl/TrustAllConfig.java).However, Elasticsearch implemented the mitigation to the vulnerability of **Trusting all certificates** in the file [RestrictedTrustManager at Line 91](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/master/x-pack/plugin/core/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/core/ssl/RestrictedTrustManager.java)



## Automated Tool Scan 
