## Project Proposal - Elasticsearch
Elasticsearch is a real-time distributed and analytics search engine. The best part of this product is it is an open source so anyone can download without paying any licensing cost so it comes under the open source license and it is developed in the Java platform and it is based on the leucine engine on top of which we have restful interfaces so whatever the search base engine work behind the scenes on top of which we have the restful API so that helps in fulfilling the request and responding to the request so it supports full text search completely document based instead of tables and ski masks so there are some more face engines which are available in the market but those are based on the tables and schema based the best part about this product is this is all based on the documents instead of schemas and it is used for the single page application projects. The Elasticsearch REST APIs are accessed using JSON over HTTP.
**The basic concepts of the Elasticsearch are:**
**Cluster:** “It is a collection of one or more nodes that together holds the entire data. It provides federated indexing and search capabilities across all nodes and is identified by a unique name. It is also known as Elasticsearch.”
**Node:** “A node is a single server which is a part of cluster, stores data and participate in the cluster’s indexing and search capabilities.”
**Index:** “An index is a collection of documents with similar characteristics and is identifies by a name. This name is used to refer to the index while performing indexing, search, update, and delete operations against the documents in it.”
**Type:** “A type is a logical category/partition of an index whose semantics is completely. It is defined for documents that have a set of common fields. You can define more than one type in your index.”
**Document:** “A document is a basic unit of information which can be indexed. It is expressed in JSON which is an ubiquitous internet data interchange format.”
**Shards:** “Elasticsearch provides the ability to subdivide the index into multiple pieces called shards. Each shard is a fully functional and independent “index” that can be hosted on any node within the cluster.”
**Replicas:** “Elasticsearch allows you to make one or more copies of your index’s shards which are called replica shard or replica.”

The benefits of Elasticsearch is in terms of query is it lets you perform and combine many different type of searches like structures as well as the unstructured searches it also helps in working upon the data which is based on geography and which is also based on metrics so irrespective  of what type of data you have whether it is structured or unstructured geo based or it’s a metric base elastic search all supports that and the best part about this is you can retrieve the result from the data which you import in any way you like so it is all based on the some structured query. Elasticsearch helps in analyzing the billions of log lines easily and provides aggregations which help you zoom out to explore trends and patterns in your data like shows files where place is Chicago, aggregates data by days, aggregates data by geography and other different patterns. 
The main advantages of Elasticsearch are scalability, Really fast, Multilingual, document oriented, autocompletion & instant search, schema free. 

### Contributors
Since it is an open source software anyone can fork or clone their project from the GitHub through the link https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch then make changes and run tests. Push and create pull request to the Elasticsearch. Then discuss the changes that you worked on with the elastic member. They will test the changes and if appropriate they will merge it to the master branch.
Below graph shows the contributors of Elasticsearch since 2010 to till month from the GitHub open source repository. We can see the improvement in the number of contributors every year. 
